we have the most professional Navy in
the world the most technically
sophisticated surface warfare subsurface
warfare aviation sailors the world has
ever seen what is the biggest threat we
have today we've been focused on some
very very dedicated combatants could we
push ourselves to Armageddon always
prepared for it so it's easy to say you
guys are overexposed and we absolutely
are do you think the government should
keep something away from us where none
of us should really know what is in area
51 you don't want the world necessarily
knowing what technological advances
you've made if it gives you a
competitive edge do you believe aliens
exist like you think we've ever had
aliens maybe they've got some kind of
internet we don't have it maybe we're a
project for them you know they're just
kind of watching to see what are these
guys up to I'm not gonna comment on that
but but yeah you have a pretty fair
understand okay got it right 2 to 6 Cod
Osama bin Laden don't get it's very hard
for me to believe you cash or sama bin
Laden they post the pictures 24 hours
later they bury him in the middle of the
ocean and that's it you know why I don't
buy it
why would I drop them why would I even
disclose to the world what I'm doing
with that part is that really a good
military mode
[Music]
today I have a special guest with me a
32-year veteran of Navy SEAL he served
for 33 years but 32 of that as a Navy
SEAL
captain Duncan Smith he got his degree
bachelor's from USC and he got his MBA
from UCLA I know it's a little bit of a
fight going on between the two but it's
a very unique story that we're gonna
talk about a part of the movie Act of
Valor I believe he worked on it as a
consultant so with that being said
Duncan appreciate you for coming out Pat
thank you for having me yes so so we're
talking off-camera and I kind of wanted
to stop our conversation because I know
some of the similarities we have you
know family San Fernando Valley I'm San
Fernando Valley
you know Woodland Hills Woodland Hills
Morgan Stanley Morgan standing the part
I wanted to go from is you go to Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter in I believe you sit
in the valley then you go on in LA then
you go work at San Diego as Morgan
Stanley doing with an advisor mm-hm
when do you all of a sudden say I want
to go be a Navy SEAL I always had the
inkling to do something a little
different and I I was a very you know
average suburban kid but I always would
push myself and find different endeavors
that I thought made me better more
well-rounded and so while I was in high
school there was a Marine Corps colonel
who lived down the street Colonel
pilatus and he told me about a Marine
Corps program called devil pups and I
went to that and it was during the
Vietnam War largely it was kids from the
inner city I was one of the few white
suburb kids who went to this program I
was 14 lied about my age you're supposed
to be 15 16 17 and a lot of these kids
were sent to this program as an
alternative towards incarceration or
some other things a chance to kind of
demonstrate themselves and learn some
citizenship I went and I thought man I'm
the smallest skinniest guy here I'm a
hundred and twenty pounds and what I
discovered over those ten days with the
Marines was
it's all about focus right if you're
willing to take that foot out you know
step off that 35 foot dive tower or if
you're willing to race up the hill old
smokey on Camp Pendleton just stick to
it Ness can pay huge dividends and so
became stronger it became a little more
mentally focused in the military as a
pathway for me was considering the
Forest Service becoming a ranger in the
outdoors or you know I joke Peace Corps
Marine Corps everyone's looking for a
mission and then I I applied to the
Marine Corps for an ROTC scholarship
coming out of high school went to a
Catholic prep school in the valley and
no one had ever gone to a service
academy I thought about doing that but I
kind of found out on my own about ROTC
applied my thinking at that time was
that the Marines really kind of were the
seals went to school University of
Southern California did two years as a
marine ROTC Midshipmen and in the summer
the ROTC program was crafted in such a
way that you get exposed to the fleet
and so my first Midshipmen Cruise was to
the Mediterranean and I was there with
the Marines and on a helicopter carrier
but there were these other guys these
other guys had longer hair they were
incredibly fit they didn't all wear the
exact same thing and I was in the hangar
bay doing rope climbs hangar bay being
kind of a mini airport hanger that
happens to be on a carrier and I was
doing rope climbs and I'd get off the
rope and I'd look at my watch I wait 30
seconds I'd climb again wait 30 seconds
I'd do it to failure and this guy with
long hair looked like sort of a business
executive came up and he said hey for a
swabbie you're in pretty good shape I
kind of braced up and still a little bit
of attention I said officer I'm not a
swabbie I'm a United States Marine Corps
an ROTC you know marine option
Midshipmen say Yeah right listen don't
call me sir and if you like to work out
myself and some some teammates are gonna
be here tomorrow morning you ought to
join us what times at 5:00 a.m. okay
I'll try that showed up at 5:00 a.m. all
these guys quiet pretty humble but
ribbing each other a good sense of humor
pushing each other bit and the toughest
workout I'd ever seen and I had been a
what's called a 300 PFT or meaning a
perfect score yeah I'd max the Marine
Corps physical fitness test with these
guys I was dying and the
workout went well over an hour
calisthenics not a lot of equipment
required but it was bone-crushing showed
up the next day and this person who I
later found out was a lieutenant said
huh you're the first Midshipmen to come
back a second time
and my abs were you know just torn up by
a ton of lactic acid worked out with
them several times that week and when
these guys were when we pulled in to I
want to say Marseille we're gonna finish
the cruise in Rota Spain we were gonna
we're pulling into Marseille and he and
his group of folks who actually were
seals an underwater demolition team from
the East Coast a platoon they said hey
Smith hey sir don't call me sir you want
to see what we're gonna be doing i said
yeah absolutely and he pulls out a map
and on this map he says well there's
this thing called Mont Blanc and
recreational hikers say it takes a week
to hike around Mont Blanc in France
we're gonna try to do it day and night
in 48 hours and then we're going to go
over and we're gonna hit these Peaks in
the Pyrenees and I'm thinking this is
awesome I said but sir here's my concern
don't call me sir right sorry
here's my concern what are you gonna do
when you get home I mean I don't know if
you have a family but you're using all
your leave
all your vacation now doing this stuff
yes what do you mean so well how are you
gonna go mountain climbing and hiking
and all over Europe said Smith this is
training this is what we do
this isn't leave so a big light bulb
came over to my head and I thought man
this is this is what special AAPIs
Special Operations training is about I
want a part of this so went back to
school
talked to the Marine Corps officer
instructor and at that time in the
Marine Corps if you wanted to do Marine
Corps reconnaissance it was two years
out of your career it was very rare to
get a second assignment in recon and it
was impossible to do a career that has
changed more recently with the creation
of MARSOC the Marine Corps Special
Operations Command but at that time
that's what it was so I look what your
as I said this is aces just post-vietnam
so I graduated from USC in 1981 so this
is 1977 and the military was not
terribly popular in the u.s. at the time
so I really respected this colonel he
was an amazing leader an amazing man
Vietnam
you know he counseled me he said look if
you're really interested in the seals I
will support you for that we looked at
it it would have added quite a bit of
time to my college career I would have
gone back and taken essentially a year
of calculus a year of physics and he
said you know you could always do OCS so
basically I graduate from USC
I lost the ROTC scholarship when I chose
to leave the program so I worked in the
dorms it's what's called a resident
advisor at USC which was by the way a
great leadership experience and then I
also later worked in a low-income HUD
section a low-income housing unit and I
learned a lot there that helped me later
in life in terms of work time bed
understanding you know diversity and
different people's perspective and then
I had four sisters so I'm a little
brother they were all at real liberal
schools they were at UC Berkeley all
older than you they're all UC Berkeley
well once at UC Berkeley once at
Stanford once at Santa Barbara once at
Santa Clara and their whole thing is hey
we've known you all your life you just
need adventure don't join the military
well maybe they're right you know
there's a opportunity to work get a work
permit in New Zealand Australia
you know England so I applied for a work
permit in New Zealand got it spent a
year working on fishing boats in New
Zealand construction a sheep-shearing
gang did construction in Australia
bought a bike and then rode all through
New Zealand back when no one was doing
it came back a year later looked left
with about 800 bucks came back with
about $1,200 and then put on the necktie
I thought okay that's my adventure you
know they're probably right I probably
got that out of my system and that trip
was amazing right riding down the west
coast of the South Island of New Zealand
and you know it's getting dark you pull
into you pull into an orchard a shearing
station at night
you go to bed you get up early start
riding again and when I put on a necktie
applied to several finance firms they're
not really interested in having a young
guy work there unless you can really
demonstrate that you've got the the
finance background the understanding the
tenacity because there's a large sales
component and the personality the hard
work ethic and got a couple of good
offers and the one I chose was to go
with what is now Morgan Stanley was then
Dean Witter and so I worked there we're
in LA and then worked in San Diego and I
enjoyed what I did but I also sat there
and said I'm 23 years old I could be
doing this easily when I'm 40 if I'm
ever gonna do this seal thing now is the
time
and so I after working in LA
transferring to San Diego I applied to
Navy Officer Candidate School
they tell you what are your top three
choices and I wrote seal seal seal and
they're like no top three choices means
you know what's the first one given all
yes
like that's all I want to do got
selected went to OCS when I got selected
I quit my job and Morgan Stanley still
loved finance but then join the Navy at
that point and spent basically five
years on active duty SEAL team one Sill
Team five went through buds basic
underwater demolition SEAL training with
class 137 and and really kind of
compounded what I'd learned is a 14-year
old doing the Marine Corps thing you
know listening to people working with
people applying yourself learning how to
learn getting uncomfortable with being
getting comfortable with being
uncomfortable
that's the stock-in-trade of making it
through SEAL training and I was the
average kid from the suburbs but my swim
buddy and I Mike were the were the only
two as a swim pair that started together
before training and finished all the way
through training as a pair my boat crew
one hell week you know it's because we
had just great guys who bonded together
you one hell week
yeah our boat crew of seven was the boat
crew that won hell week it was a graded
evolution at that point in time and it
was it was one of those things where I
felt like hey there's this secret sauce
this discovery about how to work with
people how to push myself how to tackle
any problem you know figure things out
that I think is inherent in the SEAL
Teams and it's taught in a less than
obvious way probably a very subtle way
but everyone who makes it through
training I think has that that toolset
so did it for finish training worked in
the teams finished off at SEAL team five
applied to grad school which is really
common back then the the heart and soul
of being a seal was in the platoons I
applied to grad school at UCLA stayed in
the reserve because I didn't want to
lose that military affiliation
and at 911 got recalled back to active
duty and serve those next 17 years so so
that's 86 when you graduate but what
we're at 86 you graduate but okay so are
you closer to mom or dad with dad's
deceased but dad was a role war 2 guy so
he grew up without a dad and he is a 17
year old joined the Navy rule war two
and then the Navy became his family in a
way and he went to college at Vanderbilt
studied electrical engineering on the
Navy's dime and then later stayed in the
reserves which is kind of where I got
that idea and then he he got
commissioned during the Korean War and
then after that went to Stanford to get
his master's in in electrical
engineering smart guy I think he
struggled with doing you know the right
thing more a worker bee and I think he
would I think I learned from his example
is I don't want to do one thing all my
life and SEAL Teams are the definition
of doing something new and different
every day if not at a minimum every two
years but I think he he was one of those
folks that you knew when you grew up you
know friends of your dad friends of
yours whose dads were engineers in the
aerospace industry so that's what he did
and he so he died probably about eight
years ago already here that well it's
it's how it goes and my mom who yeah
forbid me from playing football
riding a motorcycle or having guns
what's the story behind that well she
she I guess in a way football she might
have been ahead of her time but yeah she
didn't want to seem really a danger
think about it like right now they say
the the the parents of making $150,000
or more parents there are 60 percent
less likely to encourage their kids to
play football than in middle America's
so interesting that's what when she's
seen that at that time it's very
surprising forward to say what was her
processing to see I don't want you to
play football she actually had she had a
good friend whose son was riding
motorcycles recreationally and he had a
spinal cord injury he was his life
changed dramatically but then he worked
to the point where he could drive a van
that was controlled with his hands and
then he tried to kill himself by driving
into a wall so I think she was probably
you know a lot of daughters probably you
know I think her own experience in World
War two as a female like a lot of
Americans lived in that time
probably had a propensity to want a kid
to avoid danger as far as it related to
the seal thing she had no idea what a
seal was no one did back then so she
thought I was probably a marine
biologist or something yeah because seal
is is is early 60s is when he got
started right a lot of people think
that's been on for a long time so if
it's 60s then you're in 77
you're still on 77 in high school or 77
you go into the Marines so at 23 82 so
it's not like it's been around that long
where it's not been commercial is that
it is an 82 is navy seal a public thing
like it is today or no it was not well
known and I came in in 85 and and it was
really hard to find information out
about it to speak to a seal was almost
that's right 86 is when you graduated
you said correct got it yeah yeah and
and the SEAL Teams really grew up out of
World War two three different
organizations the underwater demolition
teams UDT the scouts and raiders and
then the NCD use the naval combat
demolition units and they really were
formed into one organization in January
1962 called the SEAL team still team one
on the East code excuse me West Coast
Hill team two on the East Coast and when
those were created that really kind of
became an identifiable brand the Trident
was created prior to that UDT guys were
gold master parachutist wings and that
was about it or a bubble maker a dive
pin so even when the seals formerly
existed as they were they weren't well
known and and they kind of liked it that
way to be honest with you when did it
become so publicized when did it become
you know to the point where everybody
kind of knew what it Navy SEALs were hey
I want to be a Navy SEAL it was that
intentional was that accidental I think
a couple things happened I think there
was a period of time where some folks
wrote some books that are controversial
some which I think would have been
better left unwritten that sort of
turned seals into superheroes and the
reality is as you look at the seal ethos
it's a common man with an uncommon
desire to succeed so as you look at some
of these books you know they may they
may
a little bit about things you know
largely they're accurate but they do
talk about certain things in a way that
makes it sound like they're Jason Bourne
meets you know the rock right and the
reality is it's it's average guys who
are just ready to really drive
themselves who are smart and trained to
the task and then have really
well-developed mentoring process
mechanism within the organization I
think we became really well known the
Charlie Sheen movie which was made in 88
that made us more well known I think a
lot of the books rope warrior and others
kind of glamorized the seals in a bit of
a way but then really and and I'm
sometimes pointed to as a guy who
advanced some people will say negatively
I would argue otherwise advanced the
public's perception of seals we had
never filled a class in our history back
to World War two there had never been a
UDT or buds you know basic underwater
demolition and SEAL training class that
was folded capacity in 2005 every year
the military is very good at doing kind
of an internal look and it's called the
QDR quadrennial defense review and it's
the Secretary of Defense the president
via the secretary defense puts out a
mandate that all the branches look hard
at themselves and figure out what their
shortfalls are in 2005-2006 we'd been at
war in Afghanistan and Iraq and those
wars were really calling upon and
highlighting the success of special
operations forces Green Berets Rangers a
lot of the tier 1 Forces SEAL Teams and
it was agreed upon across the board that
there was a 15% shortfall in Manning so
for the SEAL Teams that at that time had
about 1700 enlisted seals the notion was
we had to add 500 new seals to our ranks
if you've ever been to dry cleaners and
you've seen that that triangle on the
wall where it says cheap fast good pick
two you can't have it all we sort of
face something similar you know for us
it was have have the combat
competency that we've enjoyed since
Vietnam stay at the cutting edge of
proficiency
grow by 500 stay in the shadows and for
us we had to throw one of those out and
staying in the shadows was something we
can no longer afford to do so so 506 Oh
506 and so we created something called
the recruiting Directorate it's it's now
called the Scout team but the Naval
Special Warfare or SEAL recruiting
Directorate and the first thing I did I
was placed in charge of it the first
thing I did with a mandate from the
Admiral was hey let's let's do an
internal look you could talk to any SEAL
just like you could talk to anyone in
any business and say hey you're
successful you're here your function in
this role
what's the secret how do we find more
people like you and everyone commonly
will be a little bit overly inclined to
say well I grew up as a skateboarder or
I grew up as a ski bum or I was a bow
hunter or a wrestler I played high
school football and they tend to think
that's the solution and so we got very
analytical with it and I'd already I'd
already been remember back at UCLA got
my MBA and so I had a finance background
and for things that seem subjective I
like to rely upon a quantifiable
solution and so we did an internal look
we put out what's called a ufer it's an
unfunded request seeking money that was
not budgeted to do a hands-off unbiased
study of what Nate's successful seals
the winning bid was a was ancillary
element of the Gallup Organization we
work closely with them and we looked at
what the success traits were for people
who make it through SEAL training now
you got to remember Pat someone who
wants to see if they can make it through
SEAL training is a very different beast
than someone who wants to serve as a
seal somebody who wants to make it
through is very different than somebody
who wants to be a Navy SEAL correct so
our whole marketing focus which was
driven largely by Navy recruiting who
was very much committed to helping us
they really wanted they recognized that
there was a presidential mandate to grow
all the different branches of special
operations and so Navy recruiting was a
great partner but at that point in time
you know the whole marketing focus
because we tried to remember remain in
the shadows we only focused in the
public's optic with training what
happens in Coronado when you
through SEAL training what is hell week
like what's it like to do the obstacle
course what happens out on San Clemente
Island and so that was that was the view
that we would allow people but we also
found it drew in a lot of people who
wanted to know can they make it through
SEAL training and that is a different
beast than a person who says I want to
serve as a seal is that and we're pride
we're the second one is more it's more
me this is more we like I want to serve
to represent and protect red white and
blue versus the other one is it's a test
let me see if I can handle it yeah I
think I think there's something there
that you just mentioned it's very
accurate yeah it's a personal test it's
an achievement will I wear a bird a
Budweiser Seal Trident one day that's
very different from saying hey I want to
stand shoulder to shoulder with the
baddest guys I know who care about me
and I wanted I want to bring it on
behalf of the nation get in a fight with
a bad guys you had two different
motivations and and it's a little bit
like you know in the finance arena who
wants to take and pass the series 7 or
the 63 who wants to take care of their
clients find the right product to help
them in their financial future so two
different missions not mutually
exclusive because you have to want to
make it through SEAL training in order
to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with your
team obviously you guys want these guys
you want you want the guys that want to
be a seal ker so that was their formula
for it did they figure out a formula
that was best suited on who to focus on
we we tracked the population where you
really get an indication of you know
those let's look at those 37 guys from
my class for example who made it through
hell week let's find out what their
family backgrounds are let's find out
what their sports backgrounds are let's
find out if we can a little bit of their
their psyche you know what what drives
them and so what region they're from how
old were they in training what's their
level of education so as we did this
internal look more SEALs come from a
background of football baseball and
basketball than other sports but
football for example has about the
lowest success rate of any sports
meaning numerically mass numbers tons of
seals have played football but the
success rate of athletes going through
training really is as though it's it's
lacrosse water polo cross-country track
wrestling
did well football didn't do well
football statistically doesn't do well
the number one sport is triathlon not a
lot of 18 19 23 year old men are
competing in triathlon but those that do
know how to work in a way where you're
having to shift from one sport to
another area in performance count let me
ask you this you know when I was in the
military a friend of my when and he
became Delta right and most people if
you talk to them you say Navy SEAL they
know well most people talk about Delta
they don't really know the only way they
know Delta is the movie that was done
also another movie was dealt I don't
know who played it Chuck Norris and
Chuck Norris play Delta Force yes and
but Delta they intentionally want to be
low-key and they don't want to tell
anybody well they'll typically said
they're their special ops but the
average person doesn't know what Special
Ops means you know what I'm saying
they're not gonna say I'm Delta Force
they'll say I'm special ops what special
ops I work on special operations now you
and I know what special ops is but you
know the average guy doesn't know what
special ops is why why is is Navy SEAL
the brand comfortable being that public
where Delta isn't being public is the
game plan and strategy to be comfortable
being public or is that a smart move
that they're making there's a lot a lot
of great questions there you know and I
and I can't speak to the tier one side
so I've not been a Tier one operator
whether it's on the Naval Special
Warfare side or the Army side but their
mission is one that should absolutely
remain in the shadows the notion for us
you know is to really not trivialize any
organization we have a message to
attract in our arena as seals back when
I served and I'm speaking as Duncan not
as an official Navy representative you
know our mission was to bring in the
right guys on board who are today the
most physically fit candidates we've
ever had they do have a better
understanding of what SEAL training is
there's some who'd argue that you're
you're losing some of the benefit of
putting people in in real chaos when you
know when they know what's coming up
next because it's been written about in
books or on a on a miniseries you know
there's some detriment there but
when we began in 2005 with the seal
recruiting Directorate at that point in
time our research had told us that of
the bulk of those guys who made it
through SEAL training first talked to an
army recruiter or a Marine Corps
recruiter we were classically their
third choice
today it's reversed so putting the word
out has now made it that young men come
in with an understanding that they want
to be a maritime commando an aquatic
warrior they will come in seeking first
to be a seal so we to attain the numbers
we needed and by the way those efforts
that included things like the film Act
of Valor which which I I produced from
the Navy's perspective worked on for two
years two and a half years those kind of
efforts like the Ironman like active
Valor like putting former seals out
there as coaches allowed us to fill our
first class ever in our history in 2007
and now we're full back-to-back-to-back
so it's so it's easy to say you guys are
overexposed and we absolutely are we
kind of learned from the best there's
the movie Green Berets which you know
inspired a lot of folks to want to honor
earn that opportunity to serve as a
Special Forces operator in the Army now
look at the Navy's experience we have
the most professional Navy in the world
the most technically sophisticated
Surface Warfare subsurface warfare
aviation sailors the world has ever seen
but the reality is being an air crewmen
were being on a ship and repairing
machinery or working navigation and
their combat systems doesn't really
translate well to being a seal so if you
use Pareto's law you know 80/20 80/20 we
are we are the direct opposite of the
Army Special Forces which is why we're
not in competition we get 80% of our
candidates off the street and then
really 20% from the fleet and really the
fleet success rates don't always 80% off
don't always shine why do you think that
is why do you think they don't shine if
it's coming from what you already have
because I think it's it's a population
doing a very demanding job whether
they're a intelligence specialist or an
aviation boss base but the reality is
it's being on a ship for two three years
does not train you well for you know 14
mile runs
for my lush and swims you know 20
pull-ups every time you have a meal or
you don't eat it's it's not the same
training environment where being an Army
infantryman trained you pretty well for
the Special Forces q course let's
transition to a couple of the topics
here you know I watched a movie the
other day more you told me to go watch a
movie
Angel has fallen as that what it's
called angel has fallen and there is
this scene where he is with Morgan
Freeman and he starts seeing some stuff
in the sky and he sees literally
hundreds and hundreds of drones coming
okay so he's looking at it and in all of
us and these drones come and the moment
anything shoots at it or there is
movement it goes right at it
so if you shoot at it then all of a
sudden twenty of them come after you and
everyone was a bomb and they blow up
right and I'm watching that I'm like
that is way too realistic way too
realistic then I said to myself what is
the biggest threat we have today because
what are your biggest threats what is
the Navy SEAL looking at right now
around the world that's a bigger cousin
a threat in 1985 is not the same threat
as a in 2018 what are some of the
biggest threats we have based on what
you see yourself well a couple things
and I can't speak for the Navy in terms
of where the threats lie but I will tell
you that the technological advancements
that have gone on just in a limited time
that I was in you know it's like it's
like Moore's law right I mean when I
joined the SEAL Teams and you would
train at SEAL team one in 1986 to go
overseas you weren't wearing hearing
protection or earplugs because the
Vietnam guy trained next you said hey
man no one wears earplugs in combat
Tommy get useless yeah right you'd have
a canteen and basically you'd open your
canteen you'd take a sip and you pass
around the squad until it was completely
empty because I have full canteen
sloshes but if you had a new fancy thing
called a Camelback with a you know a
drinking bladder oh what's that piece of
your get that out of here night vision
didn't exist guys would go into a PLO a
patrol leaders order a mission briefing
wearing sunglasses to preserve their
night vision
not every guy but a lot of guys would
try to do that well now we have
technology that's you know night-vision
goggles and and we we embrace all these
things we understand our bodies as
weapons much better the little bit of
advancement
that allow you to muffle explosions and
sounds of gunfire but still hear the
person whispering next to you those
things have made a difference but drone
swarms and other things I think we're
just seeing the very very beginning of
technologic you know technology
advancing and changing the boundaries my
word for it
I think it's gonna evolve really quickly
and I think we've got a lot of near
peers you know we've been focused and
again Duncan's point of view not a Navy
point of view we've been focused on some
very very dedicated combatants that
we've been trying to counter but they're
not the most sophisticated
technologically and as we look at near
peers there's a whole new definition of
what technological sophistication means
especially when you look at some of the
things in the the Pacific Theater and
moving out into you know the the taiwan
philippines vietnam china area do you
really think the military can be growing
at the same pace as all the threats are
growing or is it constant preparation
and you know audibles according to a
technology advancements going the speed
of advancements going I think it's a
little of both I think some of it is
responding to a new threat so technology
can kind of drive to meet those threats
what else I think there's organizations
like DARPA the Defense Advanced Research
Project agency that is trying to
anticipate how to increase the lafalot e
of the value of different weapons
systems intelligence gathering systems
the notion of anonymity is disappearing
for us right as citizens when you buy an
iPhone or you you know you join social
media and and I think you're correct
those laws that govern those things both
in terms of our participation and how
our information is used whether it's for
commerce or or the enemy's activities
those laws can't understand you know how
these things are going to evolve you
have kids I do okay so this is a good
question to ask you having kids yourself
what is your biggest concern having
access to the information that you've
had the last 33 years well just as a
parent aside from the military side you
want your kids to I want my kids to be
happy to have friends they care about to
to have challenges in their lives that
they feel they can address I want them
to grow my sense my concern for my kids
is
you know my concern for the for the
world at large I think that we're gonna
see you rapid economic evolution I don't
know where we're gonna be in terms of
confronting a lot of the foreign policy
challenges that we have but they're
really genuine right I mean you can look
at yesterday's newspaper and suddenly
realize you know there's a whole new
theaters of operation they get they get
dicey so I don't know my concern is the
same for my kids as it is for our nation
and society at large you know then the
next question is Osama bin Laden when
when the Navy SEAL
you know SEAL Team six Cod Osama bin
Laden do you know why we chose the SEAL
Team six to do a land mission then
choosing maybe a you know a special ops
or Delta or somebody else to do it why
they go to SEAL Team six over Delta do
you know that story or no I haven't
served at SEAL Team six or Delta but I
can tell you that you know the sense is
the tier one side and conventional seals
and Green Berets were out hitting it
hard every day multiple targets they
were all very very good at what they did
my understanding is that hey there's
another mission over here and and who's
who's lined up to go hit that one I
don't think it was necessarily choosing
anyone specific but I'm not the best
person to to address the actual final
decision got it but from what you know
it's not like hey we think these guys
will be better than these guys some time
it has to do with availability some time
it has to do with all that other stuff
right or yeah the guys I know who were
who were involved in that have basically
said this was like a lot of other
missions that they'd take apart in
multiple times God in a lot of ways
hears from the civilian standpoint
okay this is my me being born and raised
in Iran and being overly skeptical you
know I'm the guy that you know hey you
know this thing's gonna do very well in
the stock market you should look at this
investment
I'm the skeptic guy I'm their natural
Middle Eastern skeptic you know when
everything first comes up I want to know
every everything about it before I jump
to conclusion it's it's very hard to
believe and I'm I'm expecting a very
diplomatic answer from you but I'm
trying to see what you're gonna say I'm
gonna test
anyways you're gonna say talking it's
very hard for me to believe you catch
not you Navy SEAL tease the SEAL Team
six catches or sama bin Laden they post
the pictures 24 hours later they bury
him in the middle of the ocean and
that's it it is so I'm not a conspiracy
guy you follow by Tim I don't have a lot
of stuff right go back the only thing we
do is we'll do JFK assassination and
we'll have some guests that come and
talk about it because I'm just curious
about that topic but this isn't a
conspiracy YouTube channel it's not like
we're gonna do conspiracy we talk about
business entrepreneurship money all that
stuff but this is kind of linked to me
because you know a big part of what Isis
and a lot of these guys came about has
to do with 1978-79 with the whole jimmy
carter and you know you have too many
political prisoners reza Mohammad Reza
Pahlavi you gotta let him go and it's
3,000 political prisoners finally they
let him out and they end up creating all
these different organizations so you
know similar to what happened with Cuba
and Jimmy Carter kinda made them go
through the whole thing and eventually
Castro said go for it here's the Mariel
boatlift he said 125,000 prisoners to
Miami next year's unemployment in Miami
went to 50% and gas stations were shut
down people were concerned Miami became
a tough place to live because Castro
played card Rijn and Carter doesn't get
re-elected Reagan wins
49 out of 50 states which is the time
you you became a broker because at that
time you know CDs were paying out 13%
but inflation
you know these were terrible times
market was very funny it's very hard for
me to believe yeah we caught bin Laden
we just dropped him in the middle of the
ocean how do you process that well I am
gonna give you a politically correct
answer cancer you know wasn't on the
mission but I have a lot of respect for
in particular Admiral McRaven who led
that mission from got a strong
reputation he's an amazing guy I've
worked when he was an o-5 at SEAL team 3
and I was a reservist I would come in
and serve as his executive officer so
basically there's in any command there's
commanding officer an executive officer
and then a command master chief so when
his executive officer would go serve on
a board or selection panel or had a
mission out of the area I would often
fill in and got to know him fairly well
and he's he's a pretty credible smart
person but he's beyond that just an
unbelievable leader and I've stayed in
touch with him and and I put a lot of
credibility and the way things were
described as having taken place I can't
comment further because again I wasn't
there nor if I was I wouldn't be able to
talk about it but I do think that
there's a there's pretty reputable guy
leading that mission and what he is
described I do by you know why I don't
buy here's why I don't bother I respect
your answer and like I said McRaven I've
settled with crystal I've said a lot of
a lot of uh solid and Generals people
that have a lot of respect I'm a maddest
guy I think Madison's a solid leader
from his unit you know but I've heard
great things about him but here's how I
process it okay
why would I drop them why would I even
disclose to the world what I'm doing
with that part is that really a good
military move is every and I'm not
expecting an answer from you is that
really a is that really a good political
move to say hey we dropped him in the
ocean here's what we did
would somebody from the top make a phone
call to say let's take him over here you
know cuz the pictures don't match at all
so strategically for me anybody can
Photoshop nowadays it's not really it's
a complicated thing but what I really
dropped the guy there I don't know what
I really want the world to know I'm
doing that I don't know it is very very
difficult to believe that that happened
again I'm not expecting an answer from
you and by the way here's the other part
with me I'm also now I know there's some
controversy in the you know maybe
suicide I have no interest to go that
direction with you because in order to
speak on behalf of the life of a Navy
SEAL agent you have to understand the
challenges they face mentally
emotionally away from family I'm not
here to go that direction or comment on
it I am NOT saying it's the right
decision or the wrong decision to sell
the fact that we really dropped them all
I'm saying is I'm hoping they didn't and
there's a different strategy and they're
just kind of telling
hey real quick here's what we did and
what we went a different direction
not expecting an answer or rebuttal from
you but it's very hard for me to believe
that and this is coming from a guy
that's 101st airborne I'm Pro us say I'm
pro military I'm pro anybody that serves
I got the level of respect for folks
like you put 33 years of your life and
you have no idea how much respect I got
for anybody that's playing in your role
I just kind of wanted to share that you
know I'm not expecting any kind of an
answer back
I don't think strategically makes sense
to drop them in the middle of the ocean
but it is what it is McRaven knows more
than I do that's why he gets hard to do
is job I just said insurance and build
businesses and I'm a whole simple guy
here let me go to the next one here I'm
Kirsten what you're gonna say about this
this one I don't really have an opinion
about I'm just curious on what you what
your thoughts are on this you're hearing
a lot of things with you know area 51
area 51 area 51 area 51 every 51 you
know aliens all this other stuff hey
show us what's area 51 do you think the
government is sure like let's just say
there is do you think the government
should keep something away from us where
none of us should really know what is an
area 51 like how do you process that
party or so because people know area 51
oh it's right out of this if you go exit
it's this many miles inside do you think
the government should have the right to
have access to certain information that
we shouldn't know about I think if you
train to the unanticipated but but
possible in the future whether it's a
military organization or in terms of
aircraft technology I don't think
everything needs to be publicized all
the time and and I think often times you
know we train our competition when we
make obvious you know back in the 60s
and 70s low cavitation submarine
propellers you know there's a real
science around that you don't want the
world necessarily knowing what
technological advances you've made if it
gives you a competitive edge in in
maintaining freedom of the seas are
there things similar to our having
developed low cavitation propellers on
submarines back in the 60s and 70s today
I'd be amazed if there weren't but I
think a lot of that technology that
gives us an edge on the battlefield is
is probably
best kept under wraps for now that's
that's my personal sense I would want
the people I know I don't I no longer
serve but I'd want the people I know who
are serving to have the capability to
have a leg up on the enemy when they're
on the battlefield I don't think the
public needs to know everything but
that's again my opinion not an official
Navy opinion I can't agree as well you
know I don't know if look I'm here
obviously freedom of speech all day in
Iran for me to come and do the episodes
that I do it would last half a day
they'd come to shut down take everything
out and I'd be in a whole different room
you can't talk about a lot of things
freely right you know freedom of speech
big freedom of press big freedom a lot
of this stuff is big but you know
sometimes you TMI is is giving away too
much information for the enemy to know
what moves to make snag make next you
almost the whole art of war deceive your
enemy you you almost can't do that with
having this much information with the
media being accessible to the enemy
because I found the enemy what am i
watching watch the news watch what USA
watch whoever hates Trump the most I'm
watching that whoever hates Obama the
most when he's president I'm watching
that why I'm gonna get access to
information because they have that so
you know it serves us and it also hurts
us sometimes if the enemy has way too
much information about what's going on
funny question for you do you believe
aliens exist like do you think we've
ever had aliens what do you think yeah
it's a great question I remember being a
7 year old
camping looking up at the sky and
numerically I think it's almost
scientifically arrogant for us to think
that we are the one sort of chemical
miracle in the universe so I would I
would have to say and I've not had an
experience that proves this but I would
be very surprised if there's not other
life-forms out there some less developed
than us and some more developed than us
on other other celestial bodies and do
they do they travel and do other things
I don't know but I'd be amazed if there
wasn't such a thing is what's your sense
for that I mean it's a math quest
right I don't have the answers to it
like if somebody I sit down and talk to
somebody who the debate is a faith
debate one of my friends is hardcore
math guy like so analytical it's
unbelievably fascinating to have a
conversation with this guy so I took a
guy who's a very strong debate guys well
I sat him down together at his
restaurant and they just went at it for
two hours I wish we would a record was
pure entertainment to watch these guys
go at it but you know for somebody to
say i 100% believe there is God okay
faith is what believing is something you
have not yet seen right okay then I say
the complete opposite of the debate I
see this atheist goes against this guy
and he's a Christian and they debate and
he says I'm a hundred percent God does
not exist
okay and the guy asks him a question
brilliant question he says let me ask
you this he says what's that I said you
have a degree from Oxford yes yes you
have a degree from Harvard yes yes you
have a degree you get you want also
Yale your yes out of all the information
in the world how much of it do you think
you know what percentage so the guy says
probably 25% yes a lot because somebody
saying pretty confident to say 25% says
25% so this guy's like okay fair enough
let's just say you know 25% he says yes
he said is it fair to assume that the
answer to their possibly being God isn't
the 75% of the information you don't
know and the guy stuck is this maybe
that's just so you can't say a hundred
percent God doesn't exist and you can't
say 100% God exists I would be on the
same page with you because it's a
mathematical answer it's arrogant for us
to say doesn't exist I mean I how much
access do we have out there to go out
there and say we haven't we have not but
I would be on the same page with you for
the exist four dozen you know no one
knows maybe they got some kind of
Internet we don't have in there they're
experiencing things we don't even know
maybe we're a project for them you know
they're just kind of watching us in what
are these guys up to it could go either
way
yeah it could be that we're so far
advanced beyond what they could conceive
over yeah exactly they could be
literally lightyears ahead of it I
wonder you do you subscribe to the
mindset of too much advancement could be
eventually our Megan and the end of the
world like oh we going to eventually get
to the point you know world war 1 and 2
maybe this but World War 3 you know it'd
be interesting to touch base on what you
talked about earlier you know are there
other beans out there
granted it's it's fodder for science
fiction novels but you do wonder what
our relationship would be like with
people that we now view as adversaries
if there was some other president's come
presents coming from another outside
arena another planet or solar system
would we all draw together and suddenly
view certain things don't matter quite
so much I don't know last question for
you before we wrap up I speak to a lot
of these veterans that are transitioning
out of the military I went to the elite
meet and talking to these guys and
here's stead of starts everybody norm
looks like you unemployed don't know
what to do next
anxiety panic they don't have the next
steps for career-wise do you think the
military is doing a good job today
transitioning people out and if there
are ways to improve that what can we do
to improve the transitioning out of
veterans I think that every veteran has
to listen to himself we're all
individuals even though we're often
classified by the general public is you
know kind of cookie cutter you know
we're all the same and we're really
vastly different but I think everyone's
got to kind of look at where they are a
lot of my teammates guys I knew well
we'd try to get right into the heart of
Silicon Valley or get right with you
know the premier investment banks in New
York and for me I I took a breath and
what I did was I wanted to become a
kayak guide which kayaking is my thing
and I interviewed with three companies
up in the Pacific Northwest all three
gave me offers but why would you want to
do this I said because this is this is
what I want to be doing going forward
I'll punctuate everything else around
this but my first job was three months
as a taking people out guiding on
Islands between Canada and and in
Washington State and out and among the
orcas my point is I listen to myself and
I gave myself time to breathe
after spending that summer I then
started consulting with a private equity
firm I started doing a lot of other core
for consulting work and I found my
stride I would encourage every veteran
getting out to understand his self or
herself as best they can find your
stride don't don't language don't take
forever but figure out what makes sense
for you and what trips your trigger what
I'm excited to see I was talking today
some folks from from t-mobile which has
a huge veteran arm they're they're
trying to to hire veterans spouses
they're trying to grow and build what
they're doing and what I'm starting to
see in a lot of other places is veterans
mentoring veterans so there's this sense
that when you're a veteran you're gonna
be out there alone the only person in
that company or that organization who is
a veteran the only person who who's been
shot at or can understand what it's like
to wait for you know Rockets to come
into the compound and the reality is
today we're fortunate and that there are
people in a lot of companies and I know
you've hired veterans as well who've
been there 1 2 3 6 years who are ready
to welcome the incoming veterans so I
would say that veterans should prepare
themselves to be mentored by whoever
they're working closely with but if
you're a veteran in an organization and
you found your stride really welcome
those people who are leaving the service
I think like that I think we all know
about the work ethic and other things oh
yeah but but be ready to be mentored and
then very quickly learn to mentor
someone else who comes in Electress so
where can people find you are you active
on social media or you're not really
active on social media is there a
website is there anything people can
find you on I'm not a big social media
guy you know to be honest with you I and
then some of that's I guess by design I
wish I had the perfect answer for you if
they want to come up kayaking in the
cell on Islands out among the orcas I'd
be honored to do that I'm working with
an organization called outdoor odyssey's
up there through that organization I've
taken out gold star spouses women who
have lost their spouses in combat I've
taken out veteran groups some of those I
just volunteer for it and take them out
there so if they want to come out and do
that
be happy beautiful take them we're going
to leave all the links you give us below
on how they can find out about you we'll
leave that in the description section
but this this went a whole different
direction but I really enjoyed the
conversation we are here today I
appreciate you
coming out again thank you for your
service really thank you for your
service and appreciate the time
my pleasure Pat thank you for having me
and thank you for your service any time
thank you